---
title: Project Idea
---

STUFF: Idea to gather stories from people about how they have experienced 
racism in subtle ways. 

A little over a year ago, I had a good conversation. I was talking to a relative of my husband's. As some context, someone close to me had just been refused a job they really wanted in favor of someone else. I was furious. I almost sure the person close to me was obviously better for the job. They were almost selected, and so excited.

I talked with my husband's relative about hiring in the workplace. I think we may have been talking about women in STEM majors, because I had just switched out of my engineering major in favor for an English major. He had asked me what my classes were like before, and if I was one of the few women. He lamented that there weren't more women in STEM majors, and that he thought that having more women would be valuable. 

After transitioning to talking about diversity in the workplace, I stated something along the lines of "the person who would be best for the job should always be hired." He responded with "yes, even if that means they're not the best at the particular job they will be doing." 

I was baffled and annoyed. Even as a woman myself, I didn't think it would be fair if I got chosen over someone who would do a better job than me simply because I was a woman. I also felt like some places were swinging too far to getting as much "diversity" as possible to make their company look good instead of focusing on what would be best for the company. It seemed fake and insincere. It seemed like companies were saying, "look at us! We have a smaller percentage of white males! Use us!" I was upset that people were being used as tropheys against others.

This was a long time ago, so I don't remember everything I was feeling or everything that was said, but he explained that in some cases it's more important to have diversity to help the company move forward than it is to have "skill". What about innovation? What about understanding more audiences? Isn't that what we need everywhere? 

I said a couple of things I regret. Looking back, they were a little racist. I certainly wasn't meaning to be racist, but I certainly didn't understand the weight of what I was saying and how people who thought similarly to me were allowing racism in our society to persist.

That conversation stuck to me like superglue on my callused fingers. I never really stopped picking at it, trying to not pull skin away with the glue. 