---
title: I Change My Opinions
---

Hal paced the room. "But that was a different me! I'm not the same Hal that they 
listened to during the debates! I'm not the same Hal that they voted into 
office!"

The Secretary stared him dead in the eyes. Hal paled and put his hand on the 
windowsill to stabilize. She stared him down, and smiled. She stood and 
slithered up to him. Though Hal's face was completely stoic, the muscels in his 
neck and sholders tensed.

"Does that matter?" the Secretary asked.

"I'm a liar." 

The Secretary smiled as he placed a hand on Hal's shoulder. Hal winced. "Is that 
bad? If you're giving the people what they expect and want? The majority of 
people will choose good. You said so six years ago. We should do as the majority 
suggests."

"But I no longer believe the things I promiced I would do in office are good 
things. I've learned! It's been 6 years!"

"So you're saying you were a fool when you started this process. To become a 
ruler. To change the world for the better."

"Not a fool. Uninformed."

"But Hal, you said it yourself. This is what the people want from you. Do you 
know better than the population? Wouldn't it be selfish to turn away from what 
the people expect of you?"

Hal slid to the floor and brought his knees to his head. The Secretary placed 
her hand on his head. He groaned. "I can't look them in the eyes. The people I 
respected. They knew. They knew I was wrong. They still loved me. But they think 
I'm still a monster."

"Monster? No, Hal. You were never a monster."

"Can I at least hire the man from Africa? We need his opinion, and we need 
diversity in our department."

The Secretary hissed. "What? No. You said a little over a year ago that you need 
the man who is the most skilled for the job. You don't need diversity. What a 
ridiculous notion. You have to hold to what you said."

"No. No! You don't understand!"

"I understand your old views better than you. You must listen to me. Besides, if 
you start agreeing with the other side, you have to go all the way. There is no 
compromise."
